#1690 added Mortability Standard (#1691)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-1690.md

---
eip: 1690

> title: ERC-1690 - Contract Mortability Standard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Contract Mortability Standard
```

Author: After changing this, the [`eip-validator` job](https://travis-ci.org/github/ethereum/EIPs/jobs/730176275) will fails.

author: Felix Franz (@Felix-Franz)
discussions-to: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/1690
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2019-01-11
requires: 173
---

## Simple Summary

A standard that allows the owner of a contract to completely remove it.

## Abstract

For removing a smart contract the solidity function `selfdestruct(address);` needs to be called from inside the Contract.

> This function allowes to provide a address where the ether currently owned by the smart contract will be transferred before deleting the contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This function specifies an address where the ether currently owned by the smart contract will be transferred before deleting the contract.
```

> For removing a smart contract the solidity function `selfdestruct(address);` needs to be called from inside the Contract.
> This function allowes to provide a address where the ether currently owned by the smart contract will be transferred before deleting the contract.
> It should be called from outside the contract by the owner only using a public function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Defines two methods (`kill()` and `kill(address)`) whose purpose is to trigger a deletion of the contract and liquidation of any owned assets when called.
```
This all sounds like motivation rather than abstract.  The abstract should be a terse human readable form of the specification.

## Motivation

To completely remove a smart contract that is e.g. not needed anymore or was created by mistake, the functionality needs to be implemented in the contract.

> This EIP should standardize this functionality.

Reviewer 2: Motivation should explain why a standard is necessary here.  It is unclear to me why this needs to be standardized as each contract is likely to have its own management tooling.  I find it highly unlikely that someone is going to author general purpose contract deletion tooling as that is a pretty application specific action.

## Specification

> This standard uses the EIP-173 Contract Ownership Standard to handle the owner management.

Reviewer 2: This is not necessary for standardization.  Every contract can have its own access control system and the standard doesn't need to care about that.

It provides two functions to kill the Smart Contract.

> Both functions must only be executed by the owner.

Reviewer 2: This seems like an implementation detail.  Access control is not something that needs to be part of this standard.

> One of the function allows to send the contract's ether to any provided address, the other should just transfer the ether to the owner.

Reviewer 2: The specification seems to be missing here.  The definition of the two kill functions should be here, and this content should live elsewhere.

---
eip: 1690

> title: ERC-1690 - Mortability Standard

Reviewer 3: Not sure this title is descriptive enough, but I do not have any good suggestions. Perhaps "Contract Mortability Interface"?

Author: ```suggestion
title: ERC-1690 - Contract Mortability Standard
```

author: Felix Franz (@Felix-Franz)
discussions-to: https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/issues/1690
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2019-01-11
requires: 173
---

> <!--You can leave these HTML comments in your merged EIP and delete the visible duplicate text guides, they will not appear and may be helpful to refer to if you edit it again. This is the suggested template for new EIPs. Note that an EIP number will be assigned by an editor. When opening a pull request to submit your EIP, please use an abbreviated title in the filename, `eip-draft_title_abbrev.md`. The title should be 44 characters or less.-->
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Simple Summary

> <!--"If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough." Provide a simplified and layman-accessible explanation of the EIP.-->
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

A standard that allows the owner of a contract to completely remove it.

## Abstract

> <!--A short (~200 word) description of the technical issue being addressed.-->
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

For removing a smart contract the solidity function `selfdestruct(address);` needs to be called from inside the Contract.
This function allowes to provide a address where the ether currently owned by the smart contract will be transferred before deleting the contract.
It should be called from outside the contract by the owner only using a public function.

## Motivation

> <!--The motivation is critical for EIPs that want to change the Ethereum protocol. It should clearly explain why the existing protocol specification is inadequate to address the problem that the EIP solves. EIP submissions without sufficient motivation may be rejected outright.-->
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

To completely remove a smart contract that is e.g. not needed anymore or was created by mistake, the functionality needs to be implemented in the contract.
This EIP should standardize this functionality.

## Specification

> <!--The technical specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature. The specification should be detailed enough to allow competing, interoperable implementations for any of the current Ethereum platforms (go-ethereum, parity, cpp-ethereum, ethereumj, ethereumjs, and [others](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Clients)).-->
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This standard uses the EIP-173 Contract Ownership Standard to handle the owner management.
It provides two functions to kill the Smart Contract.
Both functions must only be executed by the owner.
One of the function allows to send the contract's ether to any provided address, the other should just transfer the ether to the owner.

## Rationale

> <!--The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other languages. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.-->
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> A similar implementation of this standard is also used as example implementation for Smart Contracts, the [Greeter](https://www.ethereum.org/greeter), on the official Ethereum Website.

Reviewer 3: I think this link is dead now.

Author: I found an article on medium.com that still uses the greeter example

```suggestion
A similar implementation of this standard is also used as example implementation for Smart Contracts, the [Greeter](https://medium.com/shokone/https-medium-com-shokone-building-a-hello-world-smart-contract-on-ethereum-f303c7d05f0), in an article on medium.com.
```

The current design was used to keep it as simple as possible.
That was easy to handle, because this standart does not really needs much functionality.
The standard just needs to verify if the user is allowed to kill the Smart Contract and call `selfdestruct`.

## Backwards Compatibility

> <!--All EIPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The EIP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. EIP submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.-->
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

The standart is compatibile until solidity version 0.2.0.
There is no need of this standart to be compatibile with older versions.

## Test Cases

> <!--Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for EIPs that are affecting consensus changes. Other EIPs can choose to include links to test cases if applicable.-->
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

			// await instance.kill(accounts[2]);
			// using workaround for function overloading from https://github.com/trufflesuite/truffle/issues/737#issuecomment-422708305
			await instance.contract.kill["address"](accounts[2], {from: accounts[0]});
			fail = true;
		} catch (e) {
			if (e.message !== "Attempting to run transaction which calls a contract function, but recipient address "
				+ instance.address + " is not a contract address")
				assert.fail("Thrown wrong error message!");
		}
		if (fail) assert.fail("An error need to be thrown");
	});
	```
  
* Call function `kill` with providing a address from any address that is not the owner's
	```javascript
	it("kill(receiver): Should not kill the Smart Contract if the user is not allowed", async () => {
		let instance = await contract.new();
		let fail = false;
		try {
			// await instance.kill(accounts[2], {from: accounts[1]});
			// using workaround for function overloading from https://github.com/trufflesuite/truffle/issues/737#issuecomment-422708305
			await instance.contract.kill["address"](accounts[2], {from: accounts[1]});
			fail = true;
		} catch (e) {

		}
		if (fail) assert.fail("An error need to be thrown");
	});
	```

> ## Implementation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Backwards Compatibility
TBD

## Implementation
```

> <!--The implementations must be completed before any EIP is given status "Final", but it need not be completed before the EIP is accepted. While there is merit to the approach of reaching consensus on the specification and rationale before writing code, the principle of "rough consensus and running code" is still useful when it comes to resolving many discussions of API details.-->
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    function kill(address receiver) external;

    /// function to destruct the contract and send the ether to the owner
    function kill() external;

    /// following implementation can by used from EIP-173
    event OwnershipTransferred(address indexed previousOwner, address indexed newOwner);
    function owner() view external returns (address);
    function transferOwnership(address _newOwner) external;
}
```

### Implementation

Following code implements the Mortability standart using the previouse Interface and a implemented version of [EIP-173 Contract Ownership Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-173).

```solidity
import "../EIP173/EIP173.sol";
import "./MortabilityStandardInterface.sol";

contract MortabilityStandard is EIP173, MortabilityStandardInterface {

    /// function to destruct the contract and send the ether to provided address
    function kill(address receiver) public {
        require(msg.sender == _owner);
        selfdestruct(receiver);
    }

    /// function to destruct the contract and send the ether to the owner
    function kill() public{
        kill(_owner);
    }
}
```

> ## Copyright

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Security Considerations
TBD

## Copyright
```
